hi friends welcome back to the veena
easy channel
in the previous videos we have discussed
about the fabrication rules
and nmos and pmos fabrication process
and field effect transistor now we can
start the
design rules of mos and
by cmos circuits
design rules of mos and by cmos circuits
i will tell you about the color coding
these are used for
to draw stick diagrams
first one metal it is light blue color
next poly silicon it is red color
next third one p diffusion it is in
yellow fourth one and diffusion it is in
green
next contacts
it is black sixth one
implant it is a law if it is
p-type it is like this
if it is n-type
like this next
if it is pmos
under
and these are connected in
parallel
parallel if it is
or these are connected in
series and
it is under connected in parallel
or connected in series
next if it is nmos
under it is connected in series it is
opposite to the pmos and
moss is opposite to the
pmos
and it is in series
in the pmos it is in parallel
in the nmos or is parallel
in the pmos r
is in series
next trans transistor symbol
in stick diagram
npn transistor n
p n and now it is an diffusion
what is this color
[Music]
and diffusion
green color right
next
p what is this color p
diffusion
hello
next up if the arrow
is outside that is npn transistor
if the arrow is inside
that is pnp transistor
right p and
p p p diffusion
hello and diffusion green
p diffusion hello these are contacts
it is in black color
black
right
these are the design rules of moss and
by cmos circuits
see the color coding
please like these videos
if you have any doubt you can
chart in the comment section thank you